>> Jon Kuperman: Next thing, really cool.
So I mentioned earlier that now
Node seamlessly integrates with
Chrome dev tools.
So this is pretty recent.
There's been third party projects for
a long time that do it, but
it's now natively established.
And so, if we kind of go over to here and
we, basically,
the idea is you go into your terminal
wherever you are running node from.
Like here I've been running
mastering dev tools.
So normally I'm running npm start and
that's how I'm starting my server.
If we look in the code at what npm start
does, it just runs node server/index.js.
That's all,
it's really just an alias for that.
So if I did node server/index.js,
it would do the exact same thing.
What you can do now is you can do
node with a --inspect flag, and
then you can do server/index.js.
And so what that's gonna do for
you is it's gonna start
this over just like normal.
So if I go and I refresh here,
I still have my server going.
But now when I open the dev tools,
I see this new icon here.
It's the Node.js logo up in the top left.
And so if I open the dedicated dev tools
for Node here, it opens them up and
we can see I've got a bunch of
different options over here.
So we can do memory stuff.
We can look at sources.
We can look at console.
We can make sure our connection is still
working and then we can do a profile.
so one concept that you can do to
just kind of see how your Node
app is working is you can start a profile.
And you can go to your page,
and just refresh the page, and
you can go back to the profile,
and just hit Stop.
And so what this is going to do is this
is going to show you, as that refresh
happens, remember this isn't looking
at your front end assets anymore.
So you're not gonna see the network calls,
you're not gonna see your CSS, your jobs,
none of that stuff.
What you're gonna see is what
the actual back-end application does.
And so what it does is,
it generates, let me just zoom back out,
it generates this flame chart.
And these are a little
bit tough to navigate.
The kind of concept is that as you scroll,
it'll zoom in on a certain area.
The x-axis is time.
And so
you'll kinda scroll in on an area and
then you'll start seeing all these
different color boxes with code in them.
So you'll kinda keep scrolling
in on that area and here we go.
And this is basically like
an x-axis is time and
then the y-axis is the call stack.
So it's like,
get started with an anonymous functon,
call another one, calls this next
function, calls this, calls that.
Cutting back to our debugging example.
One called two called three called four.
You would see those top to bottom.
So a long call stack is
nothing to worry about,
just a bunch of functions
calling each other.
But a wide call stack is
something to worry about.
Why did it take as long as it took?
So we can see at the top.
That the self time, the total time,
rather, was 36 milliseconds.
That is super fast,
nothing to worry about there.
But, if we see one that's longer,
like a second or something like that,
we wanna drill into what
it is that took so long.
One thing you might notice is you try to
scroll down here and just keep zooming.
So if you wanna scroll up and down,
what you'll need to do is hold the Shift
button and you'll scroll down.
And that you can see all these
things call each other and
they kind of split off in
a different call stacks.
The kind of quick view of
how to use this thing,
how I use it anyway is, you wanna so
the wide ones are long.
But every function is gonna be as
long as all of it's children right?
So if you have like a function
that does almost nothing, but
it calls another function and that
function has to wait for five seconds.
Both of them will be seen as five seconds,
cuz it took five seconds for
them to complete.
So what you wanna keep in mind
is you wanna find the last long
one cuz you're going down, all right.
So you don't care about the pairing,
you wanna see what the last thing was that
took us super long time, but it had
children that didn't take a long time.
Does that kind of make sense
as a way to think about it?
So what I'm looking at here,
is like the thing that took the longest
by itself is this compiled body.
That's what took the longest,
cuz it's the last one before
they break into smaller ones.
I can see that load string and
generate code took a pretty long time, but
my slowest function is compiled body.
That's the one that took the longest time.
So you can kinda click through.
You can start seeing it'll take
you to the actual node code now,
cuz now you're able to
actually access all that node.
And yeah,
you can see all the code that's running.
So this works for a web server.
This works for command line application.
This works for if you like webpack and
you wanna see how it performs,
you could just run node dash session
inspect next time you run web pack and
see all the cool stuff it does.
Same thing with any of your node apps.
So it's really cool.
Any questions on how to
kind of get that going, so
it's with the dash dash inspect flag,
and then it gets you a new dev tool.
Cool.